= Introductory tutorial to Pyo =
Here is quick introduction to Pyo. It assumes you already know Python and basics about Object-oriented programming.

== The Pyo Server and GUI ==
The first thing you need to do to use Pyo is import the pyo python module and boot the server. This audio server will open audio and midi interfaces and will be ready to send to them the audio and MIDI produced by other pyo objects.
You then need to make some sound:

{{{
from pyo import *
s = Server().boot()
s.start()
a = Sine(mul=0.01).out()
}}}

The _s_ variable holds the _Server_ instance, which has been booted, using the _boot_ function. Booting the server includes opening audio and MIDI interfaces, and setting up the sample rate and number of channels, but the server will not be processing audio until its _start()_ method is called.
Then we create a _Sine_ object, and store it in variable _a_, after calling its _out_ method. The _Sine_ class defines a Sine wave oscillator. The _out_ method from this class connects the output of the oscillator to the server audio outputs. I have set the _mul_ attribute of the _Sine_ object to make sure you don't blow your ears when you play this, as the default amplitude multiplier is 1, i.e. a sine wave at the maximum amplitude before clipping! (But I'll talk about attributes later...)

== To interact or not to interact ==

If you tried the above script from an interactive python shell you would have heard a sine tone, but if you ran it from a python script non-interactively, you are probably asking yourself why you haven't heard anything. The reason is that the script has finished before the server has sent any audio to the outputs!
So if you are using python non-interactively, the way to hear this example is:

{{{
from pyo import *
s = Server().boot()
s.start()
a = Sine(mul=0.01).out()
s.gui(locals())
}}}

In the last line, you can see a very handy method from the `Server` class, which creates a small control GUI for the current instance. The _gui_ method for the _Server_ object, keeps a script running and allows you to start and stop the server, control the output volume and record to an audio file the sound generated in the server.

== Changing Object Characteristics ==

The Sine class constructor is defined as:
{{{
Sine(self, freq=1000, phase=0, mul=1, add=0)
}}}
So you can give it a frequency, starting phase, multiplier and DC offset value when you create it.
Also, if you want to do without the server gui, you can use the server method _start()_ from your script, but you might need to use the _sleep_ function from the _time_ module to have your script run the server for a while if you are running Python non-interactively:

{{{
from pyo import *
import time
s = Server().boot()
a = Sine(440, 0, 0.1).out()
s.start()
time.sleep(1)
}}}

Notice that you can set the parameters for Sine in the order in which they are defined, but you can also give the parameters a name if you want to leave the rest at their default:
{{{
a = Sine(mul=0.1).out()
}}}

Once the object has been created, you can modify its attributes using the access methods. For example, to modify the frequency of the _a_ oscillator object after it has been created you can use:
{{{
a.setFreq(1000)
}}}
But you can also set the attributes directly:
{{{
a.freq = 1000
}}}

== Chaining objects ==

Oscillators like the _Sine_ class can be used as inputs to other classes, for example for frequency modulation:

{{{
from pyo import *
s = Server().boot()
mod = Sine(freq=6, mul=50)
a = Sine(freq=mod + 440, mul=0.1).out()
s.gui(locals())
}}}

You can create an envelope for a sine wave like this:
{{{
from pyo import *
s = Server().boot()
f = Adsr(attack=.01, decay=.2, sustain=.5, release=.1, dur=5, mul=.5)
a = Sine(mul=f).out()
f.play()
s.gui(locals())
}}}

<wiki:comment>

= Defining instruments =

{{{
def mysynth(note=60,veloc=100):
    freq = 
    f = Adsr(attack=.01, decay=.2, sustain=.5, release=.1, dur=5, mul=.5)
    a = Sine(mul=f).out()
    f.play()
}}}
</wiki:comment>