TODO before releasing _pyo_ version 1.0.

= TODO =

*Server*

- Add a method to retrieve a graph of the internal state of the server (active objects, connections, attribute states, ...)

----

*Envelope generators*

- Add a pause() method. Keep the internal phase of the envelope.

----

*GUI*

- !MixerGui (matrix for setting dsp graph)

- Editable !TableView. Edit, Zoom, Drag, Scrub and Select Region. Resizable windows.

----

*Variable rate table*

- Add a rate factor to !TableRec (rate=10 means record a value every 10 samples)

- !TableRead2 controlled with a rate factor (same as !TableRec)

----

*Midi*

- Improve Midi scheduling with time stamp.

- Midiout, !MidiFileIn, !MidiFileOut

- Coremidi support

----

*OSC*

- Improve OSC scheduling with time stamp.

- Communication in data mode, possibility to send and receive string, list or other message types directly in Python. !OscDataSend, !OscDataReceive

- !UdpSend, !UdpReceive

- Autodiscovery on the network using Bonjour/Avahi/Zeroconf (in progress)

----

*PyoFFTObject* (new base class)

- FFTAnal, FFTSynth, Freeze, Gate, Transposer, Filter, !SpectralDelay, !CrossSynth, Shifter, ...

----

*New objects*

  * Mixer: many streams with amplitude control
  * Granulator2(multi-streams)
  * !TrigGrains(one-stream and multi-stream)
  * Vocoder
  * CrossFM, CrossPM, CrossFMPM
  * !TrigProb (!PyoMatrix), !TrigMarkov (!PyoTable)
  * Looper (rewrite in C)
  * !SfMarkerTrigger
  * !MatrixSetCol (make sure that there is only one value in a column, others are 0)
  * !TrigProb (uses a matrix as a probability distribution (work with !MatrixSetCol))
  * !AttackDetector, !PitchTrack